Ray, when you were building everything,
what motivated you? Was it knowledge or
money?
>> It was really the game.
I love the fact that I could be tested
in the real world because I'm having
these interactions. And I love the fact
that I'm scored every day. I could score
how I'm doing to three decimal places.
You know,
>> showtime.
Ray Dallio built one of the world's
biggest hedge funds. Now he's exploring
the deep.
>> How often are you on the boat, Ray?
>> Well, often. Let's say I'm probably on
the boat uh six times a year, but I
spend maybe a couple of weeks.
>> And it's all over the place, right? All
over the world.
>> All over the place.
>> We met him on board his research vessel
in the port of Nice, where the United
Nations Oceans Conference was in full
swing.
At events like these, world leaders,
NOS's, big business and stakeholders
gather to raise awareness and address
the urgent needs of our waters.
>> So, is President Lula coming?
>> I It's on and off and it's on and off,
but he is supposed to come with
President McCone, but these things come
and go.
>> They're held up. I know what it's like.
I I I love mistakes.
I love problems because I think all of
that is part of the process. It's the
way you learn.
>> So, we're at a critical time and I want
to again um give you my perspective.
>> Ray Dalio is famous and prolific. As you
might know, my objective at this stage
of my life is to pass along the
principles, perspectives, and tools that
have helped me.
>> He founded Bridgewater Associates, a
hedge fund that consistently ranks
amongst the largest in the world.
Bridgewwater's growth led Dalio to write
the principles in 2017
and propelled him into the mainstream.
In recent times, he's become well, a bit
of an influencer.
Whatever success I've had in life has
had to do more with my knowing how to
deal with not knowing than anything I
know.
>> Ray Dalio, thank you so much for joining
us.
>> Thank you for joining me here.
>> Want to know what you're next?
>> Beautiful boat. Ray, talk to me a little
bit about your childhood. Where where
did you grow up? What was your
neighborhood like?
>> I grew up on Long Island.
[Music]
My neighborhood was uh a bunch of houses
next to each other, pretty small houses,
so it was a not a big place.
>> And do do you remember your first job?
>> Yeah. Well, my first job was a paper
route. And then I would shovel snow on
driveways and but then my real job when
I was 12 is I got into catting and that
changed my life. Had a big impact. And
why did it change your life?
>> Because the people I was cing for at the
time in the 60s were always talking
about the stock market. So I took my
caddying money and I put it into the
stock market
and I got hooked. I bought the only
company that I ever heard of that was
selling for less than $5 a share. The
company I bought was about to go broke,
so it was cheap. And then another
company acquired it and it tripled in
money. And so I said this making money
is easy in the markets and so I got
hooked.
>> This is at what 12 13
>> 12.
>> And then did you decide at 12 years old
to to get into financial service?
>> It was just like a game,
>> right?
>> I love playing the game you know stocks
went up then and you could be lucky and
think you were smart.
>> Okay. So So what happens after that? You
go to you finish school. I went to
school and then in 1973 I was in
graduate school, Harvard Business School
and then I went out to work uh in
commodities.
>> So when did you decide to found
Bridgewwater?
>> Uh 1975
after I got fired from uh my job and I
got in a fight with my boss and
>> what physical fights? Yeah, we well I I
was rowdy then, you know, and so at a
New Year's Eve company party, we got
pretty drunk and we pushed each other
around and boom, I decked him. And
>> then anyway, uh so that's how I started
Bridgewwater because I had clients and
they wanted to hire me to give them
advice.
Bridgewater Associates is headquartered
in Westport, Connecticut.
In the mid 1990s, it had $4 billion of
assets under management and 90 billion
in 2024.
Bridgewater, like a lot of its closest
competitors, also made money in the 2008
global market crash.
Dalio founded Bridgewater Associates in
1975 and ran it for 47 years. And only
in 2025, nearly half a century after he
started the company, Dalio sold his
remaining stock and left the board.
Hedge funds like Bridgewater are private
clubs where rich people and big
institutions pull their money.
That pot of cash is then managed by
professionals who don't just buy and
hold. They also bet on prices going down
or borrow money to invest more than they
have. They can buy anything from stocks
and bonds to currencies and commodities
like gold and oil. Hedge funds
essentially aim to make money even when
the market is bad.
>> So when you start Bridgewater, it wasn't
plain sailing. It was a bit of up and
down and at some point it almost went
under.
>> Yes. Which was one of the best
experiences of my life. It changed me.
Ya ya. This was in the 70s and the 70s
was a wild period. you know, the
market's wild. And so, um, what happened
in 1979?
>> Yeah.
>> Paul Vulker gets appointed and Titans
monetary policy. And I calculated that
American banks had lent much more money
to foreign countries that those
countries were going to be able to pay
back and that we're going to have a big
debt crisis. And this was very
controversial.
And then I was brought into a lot of
attention, Wall Street Week, and then I
testified to Congress.
>> It's a great pleasure and a great honor
to be able to appear before you in
examination with what is going wrong
with our economy. The economy is now
flat, teetering on the brink of failure.
I can say with absolute certainty that
if you look at the liquidity base in the
corporations and the world as a whole
that there's such a reduced level of
liquidity that you can't return to an
era of stagflation
and I couldn't have been more wrong.
That was uh the exact bottom in the
stock market and I didn't really
understand enough the impact of easing
and so on. So I lost money for me. I
lost money for clients. I was so broke
that I had to borrow $4,000 from my dad
to take care of my family and so on. So,
it was uh the most painful experience
that I could imagine. And it was really
the best experience for me because I
really learned humility. You know, I
started to think to myself, how do I
know I'm right? It created an
open-mindedness. So I wanted to find the
smartest people I could who would
disagree with me to stress test my
thinking.
>> But as some people struggle to lead,
right? They want to lead by consensus.
And I don't know whether it's a
liability.
>> The balance it that's very true. There's
a balance between uh autocratic
leadership
>> and democratic leadership. I don't
believe either of those work. Okay. The
autocratic leader is the person who
believes that they have all the answers
and just follow my instructions and I
don't believe that works because they
don't know enough and also they're not
having the people with them. I don't
think democratic leadership works like
you take a survey or something and so I
believe in idea meritocracy works. I I I
had a process of what we call
believability weighted decisionmaking
for a variety of reasons. We collected a
lot of data on people and that they each
rated each other and so on and we would
get a good sense that in this area and
that area that person's particularly
strong and less so.
With Dalio at the helm nearly a quarter
of all new hires wouldn't make it past
the first two years.
Dalio spearheaded a unique corporate
culture of radical transparency that is
not for everyone.
Since his departure, Bridgewater has
dialed it back.
As chief executive and in life, Dalio
believes we're all blind in different
ways. So when he ran Bridgewater, Dalio
encouraged his employees to give the
most honest, open, transparent, and
brutal critiques of each other.
Everything had to be out in the open.
Under Dalio, employees used an app
called the dot collector to measure each
other's strengths and flaws in real time
all the time.
>> The dot collector collects these views.
They simply note the attribute and
provide a rating from 1 to 10. Different
people are always going to have
different opinions. It's given us more
effective work and it's given us more
effective relationships. But radical
transparency or radical truthfulness can
also hurt. Have you have had any regrets
where you were too transparent or too
truthful with people close to you?
>> It it can always be a challenge. Yes. It
depends on the person. You It's almost
like touching a nerve. What I call it is
tough love. It's tough love. Let's say
you have a player on a team,
>> okay, and he's got an issue.
>> Okay. Are you going to let it go or are
you going to deal with it? If you're
going to have an effective team, you
have to deal with it, right? So, I can't
not deal with that.
>> But, but this is the concern with
leadership, right? You also want that
person to be confident because as soon
as you lose that confidence,
>> then you no longer have a player that's
any good.
>> Yes. But that that you see the
confidence I learned to get.
>> Yeah.
>> Was by knowing my weaknesses to gain the
open-mindedness. Pain. Yeah. We don't
like pain. But what happens is pain is a
messenger. It tells you about how the
world works and it tells you how you
should deal with the world to be
effective.
>> How is that? I mean, how did you think
about pay? Was it
>> I think I think about pay as sharing the
mission. And if we're successful, then
we should share that. If we're not
successful, we'll go through the pain.
Can we go through the pain together in
order to get to be successful? If it's
too transactional, you're going to have
a problem. Okay? I want people who will
go through the ups and downs with me
because we have a greater mission. I
want a community in which you always
have the right and obligation to make
sense of things. I want to help you all
struggle well and evolve to get the most
out of life.
>> Was it tough leaving Bridgewater?
>> Well, no. It was uh um it was a change,
a big change, but it was like watching
my kids grow up. Okay. For 47 years, I
was responsible for Bridgewater. Okay.
to watch that next generation. You know
that you want them to be on their own.
>> I know. But when your kids grow up, you
still miss them a little bit, don't you?
>> No, I don't have to miss them. We could
still see and hug each other and we
could still have conversations about how
the world works or any of that, right?
But the decisions are theirs and that's
how it should be.
The founder of the world's biggest hedge
fund, Ray Dalio, is putting his efforts
into what he's calling the planet's most
important asset, the ocean.
>> Dalio also co-founded the nonprofit
initiative Ocean X, with his son, Mark
Dalio.
In Dalio's next phase of life, he wants
to help us better understand our oceans
to travel and document our unchartered
underwater worlds.
These are man submersibles. They go
down,000 meters, so 3,300 ft. And so
they unblock the world down there. We
all the time discover species that have
never been discovered. You know,
>> around the world
>> around every place almost everywhere he
goes.
>> You've been in these?
>> Oh, yeah. I love people.
>> And you see species as you're going
down.
>> This is not man.
>> This is not manned. Yeah,
>> it's called a remote operated vehicle
and it will go down 6,000 m, which is
18,000 ft, which will cover 98% of the
world's ocean.
>> Mark, of course you were here.
>> I should have known you would be in
here. I didn't think about that.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> He's an ocean guy. He's an ocean guy.
>> He's an oceans guy.
>> How long did it take to build the ship?
>> About 3 years from the architecture to
building it through it. Is there one
thing that you that you're trying to
>> No, one thing. There's lots of people
want to see it all.
>> This is twice the size of all earth
combined, right?
>> Of all land and it's never been
explored.
>> But why are you frustrated? I mean, you
you see
>> No, I'm excited.
>> I'm excited. It's never been explored.
Imagine there was a continent that has
never been explored and with all
different species that don't I mean,
wow. How exciting, right? And important.
What was the most exciting thing you
found so far?
>> Uh, probably discovering the giant
squid. The first and only time that the
giant squid has been discovered and
shown in its media. That was
>> maybe millions of people loved that. But
lots of things that historically it was
like, you know, the whale and the squid,
right? You heard about these like
massive fights.
>> Of course, down there, thousand meters,
all this stuff is going on.
>> It's so cool. I I always, you know, I
think of tectites fighting it.
>> Yeah.
You got to go dive.
[Music]
>> You You've never frayed into politics.
You know, you Why not?
>> I've had my the things I'm doing, my
games, you know, the investing and so
on. Um, and you know, it's just not my
thing.
>> You stayed relevant one way or another.
Other leaders maybe either don't know
how or don't want to stay relevant. Like
it's it's tough, you know, when people
stop recognizing you after a life in the
spotlight.
>> Oh, I think that that No, no, no. I
think that we all are going to be
totally forgotten, you know, like that
that time. If you're working to be
remembered or to be relevant in the
spotlight, I don't think that's a good
idea. I think the question is, are you
having what you want? You know, are you
having impact?
>> So, right, talk to me about this phase
in life. What do you enjoy the most? I
>> I'm still addicted to the markets and
you know and what's going on and
>> do you look at them daily?
>> Oh yeah, all the time. Right. I'm I'm as
immersed in all of the markets. That's
my game. I'll do that till I die.
>> I mean I've interviewed you for many
years and actually what always surprised
me is that it's always simple concepts
so that people over complicate the way
the economy works, the way the markets
work and you've always boiled it down to
simple concepts.
>> Yeah. I mean you can lose sight of the
fundamentals
>> by getting into this complexity. You
know anybody can make something
complicated. Takes a genius to make it
simple. Then you can get into the
details.
>> But why do so few people understand that
or view the world like you do?
>> I think for two reasons. First of all,
if you want to see the patterns, you
have to see them across countries. And
then I also think that economists and so
are not tested in the markets. You know,
it could become theoretical. Well, when
you have to place bets and you have to
get the penalties of being wrong and the
rewards of being right, you know, then
it's a different thing.
>> Bridgewwater is a global macro hedge
fund. That means it values very high
level research about macroeconomics
forces
including geopolitics, global trade, and
central bank policy.
It's up there with prominent hedge funds
with macro trading roots like Brevin
Howard and Roo's Capital Management.
They make money by spotting
inefficiencies and dislocations in
financial systems
and reaping the benefits of this chaos.
Even volatility pays off in the sector.
And to this day, Ray Dalio thinks big
picture.
Whenever things were coming along that I
had not seen before, I really needed to
understand if they uh happened in
history so I could understand the
mechanics, which is why then I study
history. 1929 found the bottom falling
out of the New York Stock Exchange and
the panic was on. Overnight, men of
wealth were reduced to selling apples on
street farmers. The prosperity boom of
the 20s had exploded like a giant soap
bubble.
Confidence and courage are the
essentials of success in carrying out
our plan.
>> It was so enlightening. I understood the
Great Depression and I understood the
30s and because of that type of
research, I was able to anticipate the
2008 financial crisis and the European
debt crisis from 2010 to 2015.
I wouldn't have if I didn't study that
period.
>> But I find it amazing because actually
the financial system has changed so
much. There's so much more of it. So you
think that basically it's patterns that
human behavior is always human behavior.
>> Well, but there's also a dynamic about
debt when when debt and debt service
rise relative to your income. It's like
plaque in the arteries that then begins
to squeeze out the spending. And also
because one man's debts are another
man's assets. If those don't give a good
real return, they will sell. So there's
a dynamic that we're facing today in
which that that's happening to the
government, it's squeezing out the debt
service.
>> But so right, you you believe that human
nature, no matter at which point in
history almost repeats itself, right? So
it could be civil unrest. We talk about
populism that there are patterns that
you can see over the last like 2,000
years.
>> Yes. But that's not just a belief. It's
an understanding of the cause effect
relationships, the mechanics that show
over repeatedly.
>> Right. Talk to me about the the five
forces that you see shaping the world.
>> Throughout history, these same five
forces work together to shape the world.
The first is the money, debt, markets,
economy force.
You know, debt increases relative to
GDP, that whole dynamic. Okay. Money.
Yeah. The second is internal order and
disorder conflict. So that what happens
is when there are larger wealth gaps and
values gaps then there are greater
conflicts and that dynamic. The third
dynamic is geopolitics.
The international world order how does
it operate? So since 1945 for most of it
we've been in the United States
multilateral world order. Now we're
having a unilateral world order with
greater conflict. Number four, acts of
nature. Droughts, floods, and pandemics
have killed more people than wars and
toppled more orders. So that's certainly
an an important influence particularly
related to climate. And number five,
over long periods of time, the biggest
influence is man's learning particularly
of new technologies.
So these forces interrelate with each
other. You know the international
creates defense expenditures and
technologies change everything
>> but right all of these are all the five
source forces are being disrupted. Do
you worry that this is even more
unsettling than in previous cycles?
>> Um the previous cycles were pretty
unsettling. You know if you take the
most analogous period I would say we're
in a period that's quite like 193738.
You have a a debt issue. You have the
internal conflicts of wealth and and how
things should be run. Disorder existed.
Four democracies
stopped being democracies. So, we're in
a period that's very much analogous.
That's plenty to worry about. Of course,
it can be worse because we now our power
to hurt each other has never been
greater.
>> I hate asking this because I don't like
throwing around the world world war, but
you know, could we be close to another
world war? We're in wars, okay? There is
a financial money war, there's a
technology war, there's geopolitical
wars, and there are more military wars.
And so, we have a civil war of some
sort, which is developing in the United
States and elsewhere where there are
irreconcilable
differences.
>> So, how do you see it being settled?
Actually, where do you see the US going?
Does it get settled? Well, either either
we will rise above it and realize that
our common good is going to necessitate
us dealing with it so that uh what works
for most people is going to work.
I think that's a little bit idealistic.
I have to be a practical person and I
would say that I think that these
conflicts will become tests of power by
each side.
>> But Ray, will it only test institutions
and will it change America forever? What
what the US actually stands for?
>> Of course, it's been it's been changed
and and in history, we have to recognize
that all orders have come to an end. And
then there's a new order and there's a
challenge. So I have a principle. If you
worry, you don't have to worry. And if
you don't worry, you need to worry
because if you worry, then you will take
care of what you're worrying about and
you make it not happen. And if you don't
worry, I I believe that if we don't
worry about these things, then we have
greater risks.
>> Right. Thank you so much for your time
today.
>> Thank you.
[Music]